Let's do form actions.
So we're actually going to go implement this.
So this is a future disclaimer to people watching this course.
If you're watching today with me, just follow along with me.
But if you're watching the course,
I need you to do something to make sure
that you get the right version of React.
So go to wherever your server's running or you're testing.
I'm going to cancel my testing here.
I need you to do npm info react.
And you'll see here what the tag is for what the current is.
You can see the current as of today is 18.13.1.
If this says 19, then just do npm install react at 19
and you are good to go.
So npm install react at 19 and react dom at 19
and you should be good to go here, right?
If you're following and it does not say that,
it says 18 still, just take a look down here at RC.
And so mine is here, you can see mine's 19.0.
So that's what I'm going to do today.
So I'm going to do npm install react at RC
and react-dom at RC.
And you might even have to force it or did mine go okay?
It gives you a ton of warnings because react query,
a bunch of these things like, oh, I only support react 18.
They take a lot of care to not break stuff.
So our stuff should work, but just be aware that this is,
you're into kind of dangerous waters now
by being on a release candidate instead of something stable.
Okay, so just be extra cautious here
or if you don't want to mess with it,
just feel free to follow along with me.
So most of web development, in my opinion,
is a form or revolves around a form.
It's mostly just taking user data and doing something
with it and kind of being reactive to it.
Or in other words, you really can't get away
from doing a lot of forms as a web developer.
So the React team kind of took that to heart
and they're like, okay, let's make forms extra easy
with react-dom.
So let's just make our mutation function
inside of contact.lazy.jsx a little bit simpler.
So right now we have to do this stuff
with like prevent default and create the form data
and then we can do all this kind of stuff.
But let's make this a little bit simpler.
Go to your form down here
where I have this like on submit function
and you want to change this to action.
Okay.
And then this is going to do all of this funny stuff
here for you.
So you can just delete these top two lines
and turn this E into form data.
No, I'm just kidding.
Obviously it's a pretty simple thing
but it's just a nice little nicety.
However, we're doing this inside of a React query
so we wouldn't do this.
But then you get into a function body
and you can start doing things like use server in here
and then you can just kind of like implicitly handle
all the data on the server.
And that ends up being like a really nice interface
to accept data, send to the server,
the server then saves to the database, right?
That's really quite it.
So that's it for contact.
Let's go do this for order as well.
So this is a form as well.
So we're going to go down to our form
and have all this stuff here.
I think we really only need to grab the set cart out of here.
So I'm just going to grab that
and I'm going to make another function here
called function add to cart.
Put that set cart in here.
And then this is just going to be action equals add to cart.
Again, it just got a little simpler, right?
A little bit easier to read, reads a little bit better.
So yeah, I'm a big fan of this.
Yeah, and to give you a better example of this,
imagine I came in here and I had done use server
and now I can do something like SQL, insert into cart,
blah, blah, blah, and do all of my stuff on the server
and that's inserts into the database.
I remember when Next kind of first started talking about this
and people started raging.
It's like, why are you doing SQL in the browser?
And it's like, we're not, right?
It's okay.
Like this is all happening on the server,
but seeing React components together with SQL
really just set some people off.
It's not just this like making this
a little bit simpler to read.
They also do some other stuff
that make it a little bit easier to work with as well.
So I'm going to show you one of them.
So I want you to head over to contact
and we're going to import the top here.
Use form status from react-dom, not react,
make sure that you're putting the dash dom there
because this is going to, forms are particular to the dom,
right?
They're not necessarily going to be in react native
or react three or something like that.
So that's why this comes from react dom.
And what's cool about this
is we have some sort of child component here like this,
function, contact input.
And we're going to say, return just input.
This is kind of a contrived example, but you could see,
like imagine you have like a input
that's like a part of your design system
and has a bunch of CSS around it
and has like complex errors and complex validation.
You would have some sort of component that does this,
right?
Using form status, we can actually check to see
if the form submitting is pending, which is useful,
or submitted.
So we're going to say disabled equals pending
and we'll get that from our form status.
We get name equals props.name.
Let's get props in coming in here as well.
Type equals props.type
and placeholder equals props.placeholder.
Okay, and now we want to need this pending thing
and it's really cool.
All we have to do is say const pending
equals use form status.
It doesn't have to have any really concept
of where the form is coming from.
It can be super buried, like component, component,
component, way down in there.
Because React knows where it is, it's going to say like,
oh, you're in a form and this form is pending.
So you are disabled, right?
And now we just have to put this up here.
I think you can literally just change this
to be contact input and type equals text.
And this one, I think I can just literally just say
contact input and it's good to go.
This will work, right?
Because now whenever I submit this form,
imagine this takes a long time.
We don't want people to be typing in there
while it's pending.
Anyway, suffice to say, this still makes sense
and it's still kind of cool that use form status,
you can pull that in despite the fact
that this has no concept of where it's being rendered in.
That's kind of the point of use form status.